The video captured by RPi camera can be viewed on a smartphone placed in the virtual reality (VR) headset. 
The project lets the user experience virtual reality through VR headset. Dual-screen mode is enabled in the 
smartphone for this purpose. The smartphone reads the accelerometer and magnetometer data of the direction 
in which the user turns his head, say, right or left. This data is sent to the modem over Wi-Fi and to the 
RPi board, which, in turn, provides these values as inputs to the servo motors.Two servo motors are used to 
move the camera—one for the vertical movement and the other for the horizontal movement. So when you turn 
your head along with VR headset to the right side, the RPi camera will also turn to the right direction. It 
receives input from the smartphone via Wi-Fi, and then sends controlling pulse to the servo motors to move 
the RPi camera. The smartphone also provides input to the Arduino Mega (Board2) for the purpose of navigation 
or movement of the virtual telepresence robot. The motor driver IC and geared motors are connected at the end 
of the navigation circuit. The commands to run the virtual telepresence robot can be sent via Bluetooth or RF 
module from the smartphone. In this example, Bluetooth is used. The project has following sections: 12V charger, 
8V power supply, Raspberry Pi board, Arduino Mega 2560 board, servo motors, DC geared motors and Bluetooth 
module. Along with these you also require an Android smartphone with relevant app, Python and PHP codes for 
Raspberry Pi, and Arduino sketch for Arduino board. The first stage of the circuit is a 12V charger for charging 
rechargeable batteries. Four lead-acid rechargeable batteries, each of 4V, 1Ah, are arranged in series and 
parallel combination to provide 8V power supply. If the batteries are connected in series, the final voltage 
gets added up and current remains the same. If the batteries are connected in parallel, current adds up and 
voltage remains the same. Thus, you get 8V, 2Ah power supply by connecting two each in series and then the 
two sets in parallel. Diode D1 is used to block discharging of the battery through LED1 and capacitor C1. The 
diode also makes the circuit stable and controls temperature while charging. The 8V power supply is used to power 
the Arduino, motor driver IC and other modules. When switch S1 is open, the battery supply to servos is cut off. 
Three series diodes (D2 through D4) reduce the voltage to around 6V for safe operation of servo motors. A 5V power 
bank is used to power the Raspberry Pi.The navigation circuit controls movement of the robot. It consists of 
Arduino Mega 2560 board (Board2), HC-05 Bluetooth module, L293D motor driver (IC1), and two DC geared motors 
M3 and M4. Directional data or command from the smartphone is sent to the navigation circuit through HC-05 Blue-
-tooth module. It is processed by the Arduino and then fed to the motor driver IC, which drives the geared motor 
in the required direction. Commands are given to the Bluetooth Electronics app installed in the smartphone.First, 
you need to open the Bluetooth Electronics app and pair with the HC-05 module. Once the two devices are paired, 
the buttons are edited in the app and configured with English alphabet characters. Each direction (forward, 
backward, right and left) is assigned a character. Four buttons are used as shown in Fig. 4. When these buttons 
are pressed, the corresponding characters get transmitted. HC-05 Bluetooth module receives the characters and sends 
these to the Arduino pins (transmitter and receiver). The Arduino processes this data and compares with the Arduino 
program. The corresponding digital values are sent to input pins of L293D IC. The driver IC provides more current 
in order to make the motor move in the required direction. Depending on the data received from the Bluetooth module, 
the motor moves in forward or backward direction. There are four wires connected to the geared motors from Board2 
having ATmega2560 microcontroller (MCU). Arduino Mega is used because it has 16 analogue channels and can be used 
to connect different sensors. The flow-chart given along depicts the algorithm used in the navigation program 
(arduino_bluetooth.ino) burnt into the MCU of Arduino. Capturing live video. Servo motors are connected to GPIO pins 
of RPi. In order to control the position of the camera, two servo motors (M1 and M2) are used to move the camera in 
X and Y directions. Download the Wireless IMU app from Play Store and install in your smartphone. The app supports 
accelerometer, gyroscope and magnetometer, and can be made to run in the background. The values from this app are 
sent to the RPi through UDP protocol. The magnetometer values make the servos move in either right or left direction. 
The accelerometer values make the servos move up and down. Only Z direction is used in the project. Thus, the camera can capture live video at different angles.
